Add bft explanations and guide - Closes #743 (#750)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/guides/node-management/forging.adoc

:description: The forging guide explains how to enable, disable and check forging on the respective user's node.
:toc:
:v_protocol: master
:sectnums:
:sectnumlevels: 1
:url_guides_api_access: guides/node-management/api-access.adoc
:url_commander_commands: references/lisk-commander/commands.adoc
:url_elements_crytpography: references/lisk-elements/cryptography.adoc
:url_explanations_consensus: explanations/consensus.adoc#forging
:url_explanations_consensus_register: explanations/consensus.adoc#delegate_registration
:url_guides_config: guides/app-development/configuration.adoc

:url_protocol_block_forgers: {v_protocol}@lisk-protocol::blocks.adoc#forgers
:url_protocol_dpos: {v_protocol}@lisk-protocol::consensus-algorithm.adoc
:url_protocol_delegate_selection: {v_protocol}@lisk-protocol::consensus-algorithm.adoc#delegate_selection
:url_protocol_blocks_punishment: {v_protocol}@lisk-protocol::consensus-algorithm.adoc#punishment

Describes how to enable forging on a node as a delegate.

> How to register as delegate is explained in xref:{url_explanations_consensus_register}[Registering as delegate] section of "Consensus in Lisk".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to register as delegate is explained in the xref:{url_explanations_consensus_register}[Registering as delegate] section of "Consensus in Lisk".
```

* Type in the passphrase followed by the password required for encryption.
* This will result in the creation of an `encryptedPassphrase` key-value pair.

> * Add the JSON object to the config under `forging.delegates` as can be seen below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add the JSON object to the config under `forging.delegates` as shown below:
```

            publicKey: "9d3058175acab969f41ad9b86f7a2926c74258670fe56b37c429c01fca9f2f0f"
        }
    ],
  },
  modules: {
    http_api: {
      access: {
        whiteList: ["127.0.0.1", "REPLACE_ME"], <2>
      }
    }
  }
}
----

<1>  The list of delegates who are allowed to forge on this node.
<2> Replace with the IP address which will be used to access the node.

Now restart the node to apply the changes in the config.

For more information about the configuration of the Lisk SDK check out the xref:{url_guides_config}[configuration guide].

[[forging_enable_disable]]
== Enable/Disable Forging

[CAUTION]
====
Do not activate forging for the same delegate on multiple nodes.
This behaviour will be xref:{url_protocol_blocks_punishment}[punished] by the network.

In case you want to change the node you are forging on, check the section <<safely_activating_forging,Enabling forging on another node>>.

'''

> Make sure your node is **fully synchronized** with the network, before you enable forging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please ensure your node is **fully synchronized** with the network, before you enable forging.
```

====

If the node is running on your local machine, it is possible to enable forging via the API, without any further interruption.

> If you want to enable forging from remote, ensure to whitelist the remote IP like described in the xref:{url_guides_api_access}[API access guide].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to enable forging from remote, ensure to whitelist the remote IP as described in the xref:{url_guides_api_access}[API access guide].
```

Use the following curl command to *enable the forging* for your delegate:

.Enable forging
[source,bash]
----
curl -X PUT \
  http://127.0.0.1:4000/api/node/status/forging \ <1>
  -H 'cache-control: no-cache' \
  -H 'content-type: application/json' \
  -d '{
          "publicKey": "YYYYYYYYY", <2>
          "password": "XXX", <3>
          "forging": true <4>
      }'
----

> <1> Replace `127.0.0.1` with the IP of your Lisk node, if you run the command from remote.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Replace `127.0.0.1` with the IP of your Lisk node, if you run the command remotely.
```

This means that the results are identical, regardless of how many times the query is executed.
====

[[safely_activating_forging]]
=== Safely enabling forging on another node

> To safely enable forging on another node, make sure to follow the steps below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To safely enable forging on another node, please ensure to follow the steps listed below:
```

. Setup a new node on another server.
. Start the node and let it synchronize with the network.

> If available, it is recommended to synchronize from snapshots, to speed up the synchronisation process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If available, it is recommended to synchronize from snapshots to speed up the synchronization process.
```

. Login to the server with the old node.
. <<disable,Disable forging>> on the old node.
. Stop the old node.
. Dump the data in the `forger_info` table of the db of your node.
+
[source,bash]
----
pg_dump -d lisk_dev -t forger_info > forger_info.sql
----
. Login to the server with the new node.
. Restore the `forger_info` table.
+
[source,bash]
----
pg_restore -d lisk_dev -t forger_info forger_info.sql
----

> . <<config_forging_data,Add the forging data to the config>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. <<config_forging_data, Add the forging data to the config>>.
```

> . Ensure node is fully synchronized with network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Ensure the node is fully synchronized with the network.
```

The height of your node should be equal to the current network height.
+
[source,bash]
----
curl http://127.0.0.1:4000/api/node/status
----

> . Ensure once again, that forging for this delegate is not enabled on other nodes. See the section <<check_forging, check forging>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Please double check again, that forging for this delegate is not enabled on other nodes. See the section <<check_forging, check forging>>
```

. <<forging_enable_disable,Enable forging>>.

//TODO
//==== Migrating to another forging node without access to the `forger_info` data
//
//In some edge cases, it is not possible to retrieve the latest `forger_info` data from the old node, e.g. if the database was destroyed or is not accessible anymore.
//

> //In this cases, it is important to restore the `maxHeightPreviouslyForged` manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
//In these cases, it is important to restore the `maxHeightPreviouslyForged` manually.
```
